---
layout: press
permalink: /press/
---

Images for press [here](/assets/press/Press-032224.zip)

## Biography

![Dinner](/assets/img/dinner.jpg)

For over two decades, +/- {Plus/Minus} has been a fascinating feature of the
indie rock landscape, crafting a sound that defies easy categorization.

The band's origins trace back to the friendship of childhood pals Patrick Ramos
and James Baluyut, who would go on to play with 90s New York indie stalwarts
Versus. In 2001, after Versus’ apparent dissolution, the pair were joined by
Chris Deaner, a seasoned drummer with roots in the Austin music scene, and +/-
{Plus/Minus} was born. The trio's chemistry was apparent from the start, as
evidenced by the creation of a signature anthem, "Megalomaniac," during their
first writing session. The band quickly evolved, crafting futuristic odd-time
signature pop songs incorporating electronic elements alongside traditional rock
instrumentation. This fruitful collaboration has spawned five full length
albums, a handful of EPs, a video compilation DVD, and extensive tours across
the United States, Europe and Asia.

As the band members transitioned into parenthood, they continued to write
together. Weekly recording sessions became a cornerstone of their routine. The
band took their time redefining their sound and sonic palette. This work
culminates with the release of their sixth full-length LP entitled "Further
Afield." This electrifying album, the band's first in a decade, showcases a move
away from odd-time signatures toward a more dance-driven approach. Among the 10
tracks, standouts include: Borrowed Time, a sparse synth-driven frenetic pop
song; Calling Off the Rescue, a plaintive yet raucous Morrissey/Marr jangle
fest; and Gondolier, a seven minute 4-on-the-floor exploration traversing
multiple musical styles. Experimentation, catchy melodies, and dark lyrical
themes persist but are re-energized by the new rhythmic approach.

Self-recorded in the band’s Brooklyn studio and a friend's house in Saratoga
Springs, "Further Afield" incorporates a wide array of unconventional elements:
AI strings from Sounds.Studio (an AI music platform co-founded by Chris), the
ethereal harmonies of a high school choir, the endearing voice of Chris'
grandfather, and an eclectic mix of newly learned instruments including the
singing saw, pedal steel guitar, Omnichord, clarinet and vibraphone.

A set of band created videos accompanies the release of “Further Afield”. These
videos continue the band’s trend of lo-fi, theoretical, playful, and engaging
companion pieces. Standouts include: Borrowed Time, a surreal and mesmerizing
series of video loops shot in near darkness utilizing the ultra-long exposure
“Astrophotography” setting on a Pixel 7 Pro phone; Gondolier, an epic three
section video spanning three seasons and starring multiple doppelganger
instances of each band member which mirrors the epic three section song while
highlighting the band’s multi-instrumentalist songwriting approach; and Calling
Off the Rescue, a monochrome verité document shot entirely by the band as they
rehearsed the song, showcasing their strength as a live act. Moving forward, the
band plans to release a video for each of the album’s songs, including one
completely created via code, which, in addition to being released as a video,
will also be released as open source code enabling fans to make their own
videos.

The artwork for “Further Afield” was created by longtime collaborator Mark
Robinson (Teenbeat, Unrest, Air Miami, Flin Flon) who has designed all +/-
{Plus/Minus} releases. The arresting cover combines Mark’s signature minimalist
graphic aesthetic with a collage of bold photographs.
